[Music]
so it's my favorite time in the one that
run because it is night sky news time
where we recap everything that's
happened in the news in the past month
and we look forward to what we can see
in the sky in the upcoming months so
let's start with that by looking up
[Music]
so first up on the 29th of March the
moon is gonna come really close to
Saturn in the morning pre-dawn in the
southeast sky so the moon's actually
only gonna be about two fingers width
away from Saturn just below Saturn in
the sky and so if you actually have
binoculars and you can get your
binoculars on the moon and Saturn you
should be able to see them both in the
same field so it should be a really
spectacular sight to start off the
morning with then on the evening of the
30th of March which is this Saturday
Mars is gonna be really close to the
Pleiades star cluster in the sky so the
Pleiades I like to think of it as kind
of like a miniature plough or miniature
Big Dipper as sometimes people call that
constellation it's a little star cluster
in the sky that's really really nice to
see through binoculars and also Mars
will be in the same binocular field at
the same time as well sort of early
evening on the Saturday Mars is actually
hanging around the area of sky for a
couple of days around Saturday but
Saturday is when it has its closest
approach to pi D so it's the best time
to sort of try and get a glimpse of it
if you find a Ryan if you're in the
northern hemisphere follow the belt
stars up past Taurus and the bright red
star all the brown until you hit the
Pleiades and that's why you need to look
for it and the southern hemisphere
follow the belt stars down towards PI DS
instead and you should also be able to
catch a glimpse there in the southwest
so I just mentioned old brand also on
the 9th of April Mars all the brown and
the moon will also be very close
together in the sky in the early evening
in the southwest and Mars and Aldrin
will look very red aldebran is a red
giant star end of its life sort of
running out of fuel and it's swollen up
before it's probably going to have some
sort of noburo supernova then on the
15th of April this is for people in the
south and I am gutted that I won't be
able to see this but there's listening
to me a planetary alignment in the sky
one morning where you're going to see
Jupiter Saturn Pluto Neptune Mercury and
Venus all in a line in the sky in the
early morning before dawn and this is
not unusual to see planets all lined up
like that because all the planets orbit
in a plane in the Milky Way land the
same sort of general plane in the sky so
they tend to follow the same paths along
the sky as well it's something we call
click tickets the past the Sun takes
sugar sky as well so it's not that weird
that they're all gonna line up in the UK
here we're going to struggle to see that
we're gonna be lucky if we basically see
Jupiter and Saturn and maybe Pluto
obviously puto and Neptune you need a
telescope to see those but it is a good
opportunity to break out the telescope
if you do have one and see if you can
spot the fainter planets while they're
all sort of nicely in a line for you to
find them so there's everything to look
out for in the sky this coming month so
let's talk about everything that's
happened in space news in the past month
because again there's a lot of it so a
lot of the results in papers that came
out this month were off the back of the
lunar planetary science conference that
happened in Texas in the third week of
March and it brings together astronomers
geologists geophysicists etcetera to
basically present results on solar
system missions and results from those
that are ongoing so one of the big
announcements from that was that NASA is
planning a mission to Neptune's moon
Triton which they're gonna call Trident
is really exciting because we haven't
flown past Neptune since the 80s when
Voyager 1 Dinis it's been a really long
time since we've been back there the
mission is planning to also do a
gravitational synching shot of Venus and
then also go past Jupiter's moon Io
which is also very volcanic which we're
really cool to see and the reason that I
want to go to Triton is because it's
what we've dubbed an ocean world it's
got this really thick crust of nitrogen
and h2o ice on its crust around it but
we also know that it has a lot of
volcanic activity as well going on so we
think it might be that they're heating
the inside from the core in Triton and
so you end up with this like liquid
ocean that underneath that crust of ice
that may be harboring some form of life
like we see near like deep-sea vents on
earth you know sort of right at the
bottom of the ocean floor so really
exciting to send a mission there so I'm
really really happy to hear that
announcement from NASA
then there was updates from the Hayabusa
to mission the JAXA mission that's gone
to the near-earth asteroid ryugu and
similarly from NASA
mission a Syrus Rex that is currently at
the near-earth asteroid Bennu and there
was very different conflicting results
from that so both have been analyzing
the surface and both have found that
that's been a lot more sort of Robley
than they originally thought they said
it was quite opposed had quite smooth
surfaces but in fact it's been covered
in boulders which has hampered both
missions actually landing on the surface
because they can't find a smooth enough
place for them to land but also they've
been analyzing the different elements
that they can detect from the surface of
the asteroids as well and in ryoga's
case they barely found any water or
water ice or compounds that suggest that
water once was there interacting with
the rocks and soil whereas on Venu they
found quite a lot which is telling two
different stories because there's a lot
of theories that suggest that maybe
earth got a lot of its water from comets
and asteroids from the early solar
system impacting with the earth and
bringing water ice to the earth amounts
to form our oceans
now ryugu being completely dry of water
or any ice suggest okay well maybe that
didn't happen but then Bennu being very
water and ice rich it's like well maybe
it did happen and they're telling two
very different stories so we really have
to understand what's happening here to
these two different asteroids why one
might not have much water why one might
have quite a lot so there's theory is
suggesting that we use maybe did have
water ice in the past that it's been
evaporated due to heat from the Sun or
perhaps from interior heating that's
going on as well and then we have to
figure out how Bennu has managed to hold
on to its ice instead but also the
acerous rex team we're catching people
up on the discoveries of these particle
plumes coming out from benny as well but
again we can't really explain why that's
happening most of them shoot off into
space that some of them go into orbit
around then you and then fall back to
the surface so that could explain the
sort of rubbery nature of the new
surface a bit as well but there's no
current theory for the mechanism that's
actually powering these particle plumes
that are coming out of the side of
Benning either so really interesting
findings happening here
really excited to see what these
missions will find in the future and
then also what we'll find when they
bring a sample that asteroid back to
earth in a couple of years - one of my
favorite results though from the past
month was that NASA's Fermi telescope
which is a gamma-ray telescope in space
has detected a pulsar moving at 2.5
million miles an hour
away from this big shell of a supernova
remnant that we've spotted in radio
waves as well which is just like what
like is if pulsars weren't cool enough
so pulsars are basically spinning
neutron stars so a neutron star is what
you get when a massive star goes
supernova and leaves this extremely
dense core of neutrons behind it's
basically neutrons as densely packed as
they can go it's the densest way that we
know that we can get matter and so these
neutron stars are also spinning and when
they spin they give off these gamma rays
out of their poles that basically we
detect is like lighthouse beam so as it
spins it sort of beams across our view
point in earth and we detect that as a
very regular pulse of gamma rays this
one that they've detected pulses every
eight point seven seconds so you can
imagine how fast this massive star thing
must be spinning in space for as detect
some in every eight point seven seconds
and there's pulsar that they found has
been dubbed J zero zero zero to plus six
two one six which sounds like a phone
number to me so I'm just gonna call it
j2 for sure so this j2 in the direction
of Cassiopeia in the sky the
constellation it's about 6,500
light-years away and they found it
53 light-years away from the supernova
remnant that we call CTP one that we
think went off about 10,000 years ago or
so and so what they've essentially found
is that j2 has got this like airplane
contrail streaking out behind it that
shows that where it's come from in the
center of this supernova remnant and
this contrails from the fact that j2 is
moving through the interstellar medium
of like dust and gas between stars and
it basically creates a shockwave as it
goes which triggers a lot of magnetic
activity that gives out radio emission
and so we've detected this radio mission
with the VLA the Very Large Array which
is a
radio-telescope in Mexico in the States
and by using the fact that we do have
this very regular beam of light coming
from it every eight point seven seconds
they've been able to use those timings
of those pulses to work out how fast
it's actually moving away from that
supernova remnant as I said it's
incredibly fast it's like five times
faster than we've seen any other Pulsar
eminent moving away from a supernova so
obviously they usually get this like
kick in speed from the explosion in the
supernova that fires them out from the
center of that remnant but it's five
times faster than the fastest one we've
ever seen so thallium isn't even like
the average speed of pulsars that we see
either it's like the fastest on the edge
of the tail of the distribution is going
so fast in fact that it's faster than
the escape velocity of the Milky Way
galaxy so eventually one day it will
even leave our galaxy as well which is
ridiculous and we don't really have a
theory in a minute to explain why it got
such a large speed kick from this
supernova so there's gonna have to be
further study of this thing as well to
try and work out how this has happened
so it's gonna do like a space is weird
series on j2 but I figured let's wait
until there's been more results and we
know more about this thing and then we
can speculate more about how it might
have come to be and then the big news
this month that you will probably
already have seen in the news is the
successful testing of space X's Dragon
capsule to get astronauts up to the
International Space Station so if you
remember at the back end of 2018 this
Soyuz module had a serious issue on
launch which meant that it was grounded
while they did all the tests to check
that it was still capable of flying that
was a real issue because after NASA
retired the Space Shuttle what like 10
years ago now it was the only way we had
of actually getting astronauts to the
International Space Station and so if
that thing was grounded there was a real
chance that if it hadn't been cleared
for flight again before the next set of
astronauts would used to go up we could
ended up with an empty International
Space Station with no astronauts in it
for the first time in say 20 years since
it was first built which would have been
a real shame especially because even
those many countries that paid for
is s to get built-in it's this constant
ongoing experiment so the fact that
SpaceX have been able to successfully
show this month that on launch and then
attachment to the International Space
Station and then return by splashdown
into the sea that this dragon capsule
that they've built is indeed a viable
method to get astronauts up to the space
station is a really big deal it means we
have a new way of getting nationals
there the Soyuz you know is sort of
sixties seventies tech so it's it's
reliable tech really it's never really
had that big of an issue but it's all
technology and so that will obviously
have some issues and years going forward
so we definitely need a replacement for
that so I was very very encouraged by
the fact that SpaceX showed that their
module was definitely a viable way and
there should be tests with a manned crew
late this year so the one that they did
this month was actually unmanned they
obviously did it to prove that it worked
first so the date for that manned
mission hasn't been set yet but the
astronauts for that mission have been
chosen and that's four gentlemen from
the u.s. trained by NASA it does mean
though probably that all-female
spacewalk is probably gonna have to wait
a little bit longer if they're sending
up more men to the space station that
was supposed to happen at the end of
March just in a couple of days actually
on Friday the first all-female spacewalk
outside the ISS that was supposed to be
Cristina cook and anne mcclain was set
to walk on Friday the 29th of March
they're both engineers on the space
station and that would've been really
exciting because there's been 213
previous spacewalks that were either all
male or male female but the reason that
it's respose idli cancelled is because
they only have certain sizes of the
space suits on board the ISS and there
wasn't enough space suits in the same
size for both female astronauts to walk
at the same time and both feel
comfortable so one of the astronauts
said that she actually felt more
comfortable in medium size spacesuit
they had which was also the spacesuit
that the other team astronaut needed
there wasn't two of those ready in
working order in time for the mission on
Friday the 29th of March so that
spacewalk will still go ahead but it
will be led by Christina Koch and her
colleague Nick Hague instead so it's
encouraging to see that this could even
have been scheduled in the first place
and Christina were actually from now
20:13 class of astronauts which were
50/50 male and female perfect gender
equality in there so it is very
encouraging to see that and I'm sure
it's very encouraging to all women who
work in NASA and in the field of Space
Research or astronomy research as well I
know I am very encouraged by it and I
hope it would be inspiration sort of for
the next generation of scientists young
girls and boys around the world who will
be encouraged into science that was this
month's tonight Sky News thanks for
sticking around until the end you know
you'll be rewarded with bloopers if you
do so I know that's why you have I will
see you next time but until then without
further ado here's everybody's favorite
part of the video so a lot of new
results that came out this past month
one that's fun when I go to my army like
I'm in a My Chemical Romance video I
hope it's clear that I'm saying older
barone and not Alderaan sorry style as
fun as if I'd confused you feel like
Lara Croft talking about planetary
alignments like I should be like
strapping on the gun belt and going
hunting off the Illuminati triangle like
I really should have bought a Joy
Division t-shirt when I knew I was
talking about pulsar say that was very
bad planning on my part let's dance with
joy to vision and detect some pulsars
with firming so the other thing the
Esaias Rex team was talking about at
this conference this month was the
particle claims that they've discovered
you